# A template for research projects with R and Quarto

Provides an opinionated template for research projects with R and Quarto.

## Installation

Download or fork this repository.

## 1. Create a new project

This template works with various GUIs, including RStudio, VS Code and Positron. Simply create a new project from version control using this [URL](https://github.com/bisacciamd/template) as the source.

## 2. Familiarise yourself with the template

The template is structured as follows:

```
📦 
└─ template
   ├─ manuscript/
   ├─ abstract/
   ├─ data/
   ├─ R/
   ├─ scripts/
   ├─ Report.qmd
   └─ _quarto.yml
```

-   `manuscript/`: contains the manuscript files.
-   `abstract/`: contains the abstract files.
-   `data/`: contains the data files.
-   `R/`: contains the R scripts and functions that I commonly use.
-   `scripts/`: contains the scripts for data analysis.
-   `Report.qmd`: the main Quarto document.
-   `_quarto.yml`: the Quarto project options file.
-   `.gitignore`: the gitignore file is designed to avoid any unintentional data breaches.

## 3. Customise the template

Customise the template to your needs. You can do this by: - changing the folder structure - changing the content of the files - changing the `_quarto.yml` file based on your needs. For example, by default, Report.qmd is rendered to docs/. You can change this by editing the `output-dir` in `_quarto.yml`.

## 4. Make your research project glow!

Now you can start your research project. Happy coding!

Folder structure generated by [Project Tree Generator](https://woochanleee.github.io/project-tree-generator).

